------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------- Frequently Asked Questions ----------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. How do I go about setting up a mailinglist?

	Look in the examples/mailinglist file, it describes it in detail.

2. I installed procmail (i.e. typed 'make install'), but how am I supposed to
   use it?  When I type procmail on the command line it simply does nothing.

	You're not supposed to start procmail from the command line.
	Be sure to have a .forward and a .procmailrc file in your home
	directory (see the examples subdirectory or the man page).
	MMDF users should note that they need a .maildelivery file *instead*
	of a .forward file (see the man page for more detailed information).

	If however, procmail has been integrated in the maildelivery system
	(i.e. if your system administrator installed it that way, ask him/her),
	then you no longer need the .forward files in your home directory,
	having a .procmailrc file will suffice.

	On some systems .forward files are not checked, in this case it might
	be worth trying to put a line looking like this:
		Pipe to /usr/local/bin/procmail
	as the only line in your mail spool file (e.g. /usr/mail/$USER), as
	well as doing a "chmod 04600 /usr/mail/$USER".	For more information
	on such systems, do a "man mail".

3. When I compile everything the compiler complains about invalid or illegal
   pointer combinations, but it produces the executables anyway.
   Should I be concerned?

	Ignore these warnings, they simply indicate that either your compiler
	or your system include files are not ANSI/POSIX compliant.
	The compiler will produce correct code regardless of these warnings.

4. The compiler seems to issue warnings about "loop not entered at top",
   is that a problem?

	No, no problem at all, it just means I wrote the code :-)
	That's just about the only uncommon coding technique I use (don't
	think I don't try to avoid those jumps in loops, it's just that
	sometimes they are the best way to code it).  Use gcc if you want
	to avoid these warnings.

5. The compiler complains about unmodifiable lvalues or assignments to const
   variables.  Now what?

	Well, if the compiler produces the executables anyway everything
	probably is all right.	If it doesn't, you might try inserting a
	"#define const" in the autoconf.h file by hand.	 However in any case,
	your compiler is broken; I would recommend submitting this as a
	compiler bug to your vendor.  In any case, if this should occur, I'd
	appreciate a mail from you (so I can try to fix the autoconf script
	to recognise your compiler).

6. The compiler refuses to compile regexp.c, what is the problem?

	Try compiling that module with optimisation turned off.

7. When I send myself a testmail, the mail bounces with the message: cannot
   execute binary file.	 What am I doing wrong?

	It is very well possible that mail is processed on a different
	machine from that where you usually read your mail.  Therefore you
	have to make sure that procmail has the right binary format to
	execute on those machines on which mail could arrive.  In order to
	get this right you might need to do some .forward file tweaking,
	look at the examples/advanced file for some suggestions.

8. Where do I look for examples about:
	One home directory, several machine architectures?
	Procmail as an integrated local mail delivery agent?
	Security considerations (when installing procmail suid root)
	How to generate autoreplies?
	`Vacation' functionality
	Exorbitant rcfile formats?
	The 'A' flag?

	Well, this probably is your lucky day :-), all these topics are covered
	in the examples/advanced file.

9. Why do I have to insert my login name after the '#' in the .forward or
   .maildelivery file?

	Some mailers 'optimise' maildelivery and take out duplicates from
	Cc:, Bcc: and alias lists before delivery.  If two or more persons on
	such a list would have identical .forward files, then the mailer will
	eliminate all but one.	Adding a '#' with your login name following
	it will make the .forward files unique, and will ensure that the mailer
	does optimise away some addresses.

10. How do I view the man pages?

	If the man(1) program on your system understands the MANPATH
	environment variable, make sure that the installation directory listed
	in the Makefile for the manpages is included in your MANPATH.  If your
	man program does not support MANPATH, make sure that the man pages
	are installed in one of the standard man directories, like under
	/usr/man.  If you do not want to install the man pages before viewing
	them, you can view an individual man file by typing something like:
	nroff -man procmail.1 | more

11. None of the above topics cover my problem.	Should I panic?

	Let me ask you a question :-), have you examined the CAVEATS, WARNINGS,
	BUGS and NOTES sections of the manual pages *closely* ?
	If you have, well, then panic.
