The SmartList mailinglist package has been built on top of the procmail
mail processing package.  In order to install it you'll need the source
of the procmail package as well.

If you now have just the procmail sources, get the SmartList sources and
unpack them on top of the procmail source tree.
If you now have just the SmartList sources, get the procmail sources and
unpack them on top of the SmartList source tree.
See below on where to get the missing part.

The two source packages should blend together with only this README file
and the FEATURES file being duplicated.
----------------------
For installation instructions see the INSTALL file.
----------------------
SmartList mailinglist management package.
Copyright (c) 1993-1994, S.R. van den Berg, The Netherlands.

Some legal stuff:

Use this software package at your own risk.  The programmer cannot
be held liable for any incurred damages, directly or indirectly due to
the use or inability to use this software.

You are encouraged to distribute this package freely.  This package is
however not to be sold (minor transfer costs excepted) or included in
any commercially sold software package (if you want to do this anyway,
contact me (address below), and we'll work something out).

If you distribute it, please leave the package intact.	You are allowed to
take parts from this distribution and distribute these separately as long
as you retain the copyright messages.  If you redistribute any part of this
package in a modified form, be sure to mark the parts you changed.
If you have some important changes that might be useful to the rest of the
world, contact me instead.
----------------------
A recent version of both packages can be picked up at various
comp.sources.misc archives.
The latest versions can be obtained directly from the ftp-archive at:

	ftp.informatik.rwth-aachen.de

as (g)zipped tar files:	   /pub/packages/procmail/procmail.tar.gz
			   /pub/packages/procmail/SmartList.tar.gz
as compressed tar files:   /pub/packages/procmail/procmail.tar.Z
			   /pub/packages/procmail/SmartList.tar.Z
----------------------
